# Engineering RNA export for measurement and manipulation of living cells

This repository holds code and data for analysis and plotting related to the development of synthetic RNA export systems and their application for non-destructive measurement of cell dynamics and delivering RNA from cell to cell.

## Citation

If you use this code, please cite this paper.

Horns *et al.*, Engineering RNA export for measurement and manipulation of living cells, *Cell* **186** (2023).

## Organization

The repository is organized into directories that contain code and data. The contents of each directory are described in the table below.

| Directory | Description | Comments |
| ------------- |-------------|-------------|
| analysis | Analysis code to generate figures | |
| imaging_data | Images used for analysis | Available from CaltechDATA, but not Github|
| log | Log files generated by pipelines | |
| pipelines | Pipelines for preprocessing sequencing reads| |
| preprocessed_data | Preprocessed data (qPCR, flow cytometry, sequencing, etc.)| |
| raw_sequencing_data | Sequencing reads | Available from CaltechDATA or SRA, but not Github |
| resources | Software and reference data | Available from CaltechDATA, but not Github |
| sequencing_data_preprocessing | Working directory for pipelines for preprocessing sequencing reads | Available from CaltechDATA, but not Github |

## Obtaining data

This entire repository, including all data, is freely available from CaltechDATA. (TODO provide link)

In the Github repository, code and small data files (e.g. qPCR data) are provided. However, larger data files are not included on Github because of storage constraints. The larger data files are freely available from CaltechDATA.

DNA and RNA sequencing reads are available from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) via accessions provided below.

| Data | Accession |
| ------------- |-------------|
| Genome-scale characterization of cellular and exported RNA | PRJNA934101 |
| Characterizing library barcode diversity | PRJNA943427 |
| Monitoring clonal population dynamics | PRJNA943434 |

Software in the `resources` directory may need to be installed or compiled on your local system to be operational.

## Environment

The primary environment uses Python 3.7.7 and is specified in `analysis/environment.yml`. Use of the Conda package manger is recommended.

## Disclaimer

This project is not maintained. Software is provided as is and requests for support may not be addressed.

## Contact

If you have questions or comments, please contact Felix Horns at rfhorns@gmail.com.
